---
documentclass: article
geometry:
  - margin=1.5in
---

<!-- Prepare a concise one or two page essay in PDF format that describes your primary areas of interest, your related experiences, and your objective in pursuing a graduate degree at Carnegie Mellon. Your essay should be specific in describing your interests and motivations. When describing your interests, you should explain why you think they are important areas of study and why you are particularly well-suited to pursue them. You should describe any relevant education, research, commercial, government, or teaching experience. If you are applying to more than one program, you may (but are not required to) submit a separate Statement of Purpose for each program. If you are submitting different statements, please upload as one file and include a table of contents page. Include your name and User ID on the essay.

- Master's in Computer Science applicants: Discuss your purpose in pursuing a master's degree in Computer Science. For example, you might explain how advanced study in Computer Science fits into your future career ambitions. There are no right answers, and you do not need to have worked out your future plans in detail. We just want to see that you have thought your purpose through. If your background is unusual, this is also the right place to explain it to us. -->

<!--
pandoc carnegie-mellon.md -o carnegie-mellon.pdf
-->

I'm utterly fascinated by artificial intelligence. More specifically, natural language understanding is my primary area of interest. Not only is it difficult to teach a system to understand an essay on economics, it's difficult for the system to actually prove that it understands the material. To me, natural language understanding is a very fundamental area of artificial intelligence, one that needs a clear definition of understanding and intelligence to measure success. This intertwining of the definition of intelligence with the idea of teaching a computer to read is what interests me so much.

Artificial intelligence, in general, is the most important field in computer science right now. I look at computers as tools, machines that help myself and others achieve their goals. That might be learning how to play piano, memorizing vocabulary for a second language, or finding a good dinner recipe for tonight. And for those goals, we have made amazing improvements since the days of paper encyclopedias. But for goals like driving a car, summarizing the state of the world economy, or translating a menu from Chinese to French, traditional software doesn't work. Artificial intelligence approaches are the current leading solutions for these problems (and others like it).

More specifically, I am fascinated by natural language processing, and more specifically still, natural language _understanding_. Ordinary human language is so unbelieveably important to development of more and more useful computer-based tools. We, as humans, communicate through natural language, record our history in natural language and think in natural language (sometimes in a different language than we speak). Ordinary language is arguably one of the reasons humankind has been so successful as a species to date: our ability to communicate our intents clearly with complete strangers has allowed us to spread and work together like no other animal (ussing tools helped too).

But computers, perhaps our most powerful tool as a tool-based species, don't understand natural language. They can't reason about sentences the same way we can. When I talk about computers understanding ordinary language, my friends and family immediately think of HAL 9000 or Siri. I jump to explain that computers understanding natural language means computers working as therapists, medical researchers, politicians and teachers. As an example, current cancer research is published as long-form content, but the warehouses filled with servers around the world are unable to take advantage of this information. They could be creating new insights while we sleep. Congressmen and women might aim to improve the lives of their constituents, but they can't account for everyone. A computer that understands ordinary language could read every voter's letter and every economics paper published and propose laws based on a true understanding of the entire world, rather than the limited understanding a single person can have.

Alexa is not the end-game for artificial intelligence. The benefits of computers understanding natural language are staggering. I want to be part of development of computers that understand natural language.

Most importantly, I love the research process. I have been working on my undergraduate thesis in natural language understanding for over 8 months, while taking classes, then while working over the summer. I am using creating a distantly-supervised dataset of academic writing from arxiv.org to train a model for the Automated Evaluation of Scientific Writing task, which is to predict whether a sentence needs further editing. I've had to take graduate courses, read textbooks on my own time, and squeeze GPU compute time from friends' gaming PCs, all with the goal of producing something new for someone else to read and gain a little bit of inspiration for their next project.

I'm a computer science student who interned at GE Digital and Microsoft. I created a mobile app with friends to sell student football tickets, which transferred \$165K worth of tickets between 7K students. I love software engineering, but only when it's supporting something important, like bettering humanity by teaching computers to understand natural language.

I lived in Switzerland for nearly 3 years, learning a second language (German) when I was 14. I continued that study with a German minor because languages fascinate me: the differences in grammar, the history of vocabulary, the nuances of slang and how a language changes over time is all so interesting to me. My passion for language lends itself well to understanding music as well: rap lyrics need to tell a story while rhyming, and having a consistent rhythm, and using vocabulary that makes the rapper a concrete person, rather than a voice on a speaker. Seeing how lyricists change English (or German) grammar to fit their stories into these constraints is another component of language that interests me.

Gathering information about a topic and distilling it until it's easily understood, then expanding that new kernel of information into something valuable is amazing. I feel incredibly lucky to work on natural language understanding research, and I want to continue that at Carnegie Mellon.
